Let's now see how to
generate these snippets or
other summaries from single documents.
Now here's an example of a snippet.
This is again coming from Google.
I've asked a question.
Was cast-metal moveable
type invented in Korea?
And Google's giving me three
little snippets with the answer.
And you can see that it's bold-faced
cases where words in my query
occurred in the snippet.
And you can see the use of dot, dot,
dots in the snippets telling you that it's
combining pieces from different pages,
excuse me, different places in the page.
So let's see how these
kind of snippets and
other kinds of summaries based
on single documents are built.
We can think of any summarization
algorithm as having three stages.
The first stage is content selection,
extracting the sentences that
we need from the document.
So we have some document as input.
And we're going to need
to extract sentences.
So we might segment our sentences off.
Maybe we use sentences with periods,
full sentences.
Maybe we use some kind of moving window.
So we've extracted some kind of
little pieces, little sentences.
And now,
from this segmented set of sentences.
We want to pick the ones
that are important.
So I've marked those with
little black dots here.
We've picked some set
of extracted sentences.
And our next task, information ordering,
is we're going to decide what
order the sentences go in.
So we have some now ordered
set of important sentences.
And finally we might do some
modifications to the sentences,
perhaps we are going to simplify them or
something else.
So that's sentence realization.
And the result of these
four steps our summary.
Now, the most basic summarization
algorithm, or one that comes up a lot,
really only uses one of these three steps,
the content selection step.
So in the simplest possible algorithm,
we don't worry about what ordering
the sentences come in and
we don't modify the sentences at all.
We simply segment our document into
sentences or maybe their windows.
We pick the important ones and we leave
them in the same order they came in.
So we're going to use what we call
document order with the original
sentences.
So this is a very simple ace line for
summarization and
one that most web-based snippet
generation algorithms certainly use.
The most commonly used algorithm for
content selection dates back to the very
earliest paper in the field, from 1915.
It's pretty exciting that
these ideas came out so early.
And the intuition is really fairly simple.
Choose sentences that have salient or
informative words.
Well, what's that mean?
Well you've seen tf-idf,
that's a way of picking words that
are particularly frequent, and then don't
contain words that occur in all documents.
So that's one way we might define
saliency or informativity.
Turns out in summarization,
we tend to use another approach,
the log-likelihood ratio or,
sometimes called topic signature approach.
And that differs from tf-idf in two ways.
One that we use a slightly different
statistic for picking, for
weighing each of the words.
And second, instead of picking
all the words, we'll choose only
the words whose weight is above some
threshold, the very salient words.
Now log-likelihood ratio gives
us a statistic called lambda.
I'm not going to go into details,
but they're in some lovely papers.
And, we're going to choose all words for
who the value of 2 log lambda is
greater than this cutoff of 10.
So that gives us a threshold for
which we can pick words that are
particularly salient by this statistic.
So, we're going to weight every word.
And the weight of word I is going to be 1
if the word is especially associated with
that document, meaning occurs more times
in that document than in the background
corpus by some threshold otherwise than
that we're going to give it a weight of 0.
And again and for details about how to
compute the log likelihood of ratio and
the intuition about the statistics you
can see this lovely Ted Dunning paper or
the Lin and Hovy paper that proposed
using it for summarization.
Now, we want to modify this algorithm for
dealing with query focus summarization.
Again, we're not interested so much in
pure summarization in today's lecture, but
how to use summarization techniques for
question answering.
So, this is topics signature based,
topic signature meaning
pick the words that are particularly
associated with a document.
Content selection choosing
the sentences where we've got queries.
All right, and so we're going to
modify the algorithm very slightly.
We're going to choose words that are
informative either in log likelihood ratio
or words that happen to
appear in the query.
So we're going to weight
every word in a document,
we're going to give it a weight of 1.
If it meets the log likelihood threshold
that passes the threshold of about 10,
we're going to give it a weight of 1
also if that word happens to appear in
the query or question, and otherwise,
we're going to give the word weight of 0.
And these weights are very simple, 1,
1, 0, you could imagine learning more
complex weights, and some research has
gone into coming up with very powerful
ways to learn detailed ways but one one
zero works pretty well it turns out.
And now,
we're just going to weigh a sentence, or
perhaps its a window if you
don't have actual sentences.
We're going to weigh it by the weight of
the words so we're just going to sum over
all of the words in our sentence
of the weight of the words and
then we are going to take the average.
Now the content selection algorithm
we just described is unsupervised.
We didn't have any label
training set of which,
of summaries to learn weights from or
things like that.
So that's an alternative approach.
Supervised content selection, so
now if we had a labelled training set,
where for each document we had a good
summary and we had an alignment.
For every sentence in the summary, we knew
what sentence had came from the document,
we had the matching sentences.
Now we can extract all sorts of features.
We can extract the position of
the sentence in the document,
first sentences are very likely to be
good summary sentences, how long it is,
we can have all of the features we
had before, word informativeness and
things like that we could add other
kinds of features based on discourse,
information that we might have.
We might associate every sentence
with some vector of features.
And now we can just train
a binary classifier.
Should I put this sentence in the summary,
yes or no?
And it might learn weights for
all these features and
any other features that
we can come up with.
Now this algorithm sounds, good, but in
practice it turns out to be very hard to
get label training data of this type,
when people actually write abstract first
sentences, the authors don't
always use exact words and
phrases, they certainly don't use entire
sentences that come from the document.
So, finding perfectly labeled abstracts
with extracts from the document is hard.
It's hard to do the alignment because
they don't pick entire sentences.
They may be picking words,
or phrases, or chunks.
It's hard to figure out where those
words came from even when they did
pick them from the document.
And it turns out, surprisingly perhaps,
that the performance is simply not much
better than unsupervised algorithms.
So in practice, unsupervised content
selection just using log likelihood ratio
or other simple measures of how salient or
informative a word,
and hence a sentence is, are the most
common method for content selection.
So we've seen how to generate
summaries from a single document.
And the baseline algorithm we pick is
simply come up with a simple statistical
way to find a sentence that is
very informative by looking for
informative words.
And we talked about
the log-likelihood ratio
an in important way of
finding these sentences.